Sanket OJT Student

Hibernate questions .

1. You should know mappings.
2. Cascading types 
3. Difference between get() and load() method 
4. What interfaces you used while using hibernate.
5. Explain complete flow of database connectivity using hibernate.
6. Difference between jdbc and hibernate db connectivity .
7. Explain hibernate lifecycle states.
8.difference between save() and persist() method
9. Difference between update() and merge () method.
10) relationship mappings between entity classes .
11) how to write SQL queries in repository layer . OR how we can write native queries in hibernate/jpa .
12) should have knowledge of criteria api . 
10. What are different levels of cache provided by hibernate. How to configure 2nd level cache using hibernate. (Explain all the steps with required dependencies , classes and properties that need to be configured.)

Advanced questions : 

1. How to configure multiple databases in Spring Boot application.
2) How to create composite primary key in hibernate .
2. How do you manage transactions in hibernate .
Manualy managing transactions is not recommended.  Try to explain how to implement @Transactional annotation .


1) all oops concepts.
2) Exception handling. How to create Custom exception.
3) Object class methods (very imp - equals() , hashcode() , moderate imp - clone , wait , notify , notifyAll, toString)
2) collections framework
3)which data structures used for : ArrayList , linked list , hashset , hashmap , hashtable . 
4) comparable vs comparator with deep knowledge. 
2) internal working of hashmap .
3. Difference between Hashmap , hashtable, concurrent Hashmap.
4. Internal working of hashset.
5. Difference between arraylist and linked list . 
3) internal working of hashtable
4) Internal working of Hashmap ? What is hash collision in hashmap ? What are new features included in hashmap in java 8 version . 

4)string vs string builder vs string buffer
5) what is immutability . Why string is immutable. 
6)logical coding questions on string (you have to use inbuild methods of String class).
5) fail safe vs fail fast collection.
6) arraylist vs linkedlist
7) concurrent hashmap uses
8) random question on stream API ( most of the times they ask us to write code for filter and map methods)

Spring boot related questions : 

9) bean scopes. How can we change the scope of bean . 
10) IOC container
11) dependency injection and its types . 

11) spring vs spring boot . 
11) springboot advantages
12) springboot annotations
13) exception handling in spring boot. 
14) junit testing with mockito ( just introductory ) - optionnal
15) spring actuator (Introductory)
16) transaction management

17)  http codes 
18) how to manage http request and response in spring boot .  http headers and body . (Theoretical knowledge is sufficient )


Advanced questions : 

1. How you have managed logs in your project . How to implement logger . 
2. Swagger (it is optional . But you should have knowledge of it .)
3. Deployment process . How and where your project was deployed (this question was asked to me lots of times) . Answer : I was not involved in deployment process in my project.  but if you have knowledge of depoymemt then you can explain it  . 

4. Spring profiles - you should know this .

Questions related to SQL query . 

1) Should be familiar with DDL , DML commands 
2) knowledge of  Joins required. 
3) Indexing (optional) 
4) mostly asked question - find 2nd highest salary .

You can search on google for interview asked  SQL queries .


Hello myself xyz . I am from address . I have completed my graduation in BE IT from abc University . Currently I am working for Organization Company name ,  Pune , where I am working as a software developer . I have total experience of 3 years and relevant experience of 2 yrs 9 months . I am working on a healthcare domain project where we have provided a  web application as a solution to our client . The main objective of the application is to implement the daily work processes , activities by using this application and reduce the use of paper works. It will boost the hospital functionality and provide growths in the business . 
 In this project we have followed the layered architecture which includes front end + backend . 
Front was developed using angular 8 and backend was developed by using spring boot , hibernate and my SQL DB .  At the backend side the web request will come from the browser and will be mapped at the web layer(controller layer )  by using rest endpoints . Then controller layer will communicate with the service layer for business logic and service layer will communicate with the database through repository layer . And at the last the response will be generated and returned from the controller layer  in the form of json with their corresponding Http status codes  .  This response will be consumed at the front end by using Angular . 
This is all about the architecture of my project . 
The technology stack which I worked on includes java 8 , spring boot framework , hibernate , my SQL , angular 8 .  That's all from my side . 




Note : this self introduction is sufficient for getting placed .   But they can also ask additional questions on the projects too . So prepare 1 or 2 modules properly as a backup .